Welcome to the next section of this course.
In this section, we'll be learning about extent reports.
And these slides will show you how we can use extent reports to provide an advanced form of reports
in.
So what our extend reports Extend the pause is a customizable h html report developed by someone called
Anshu Observer.
These reports can be integrated into Selenium Web Driver using j unit and test energy frameworks.
Extend reports offer a number of advantages over standard reports, such as their easy to read data
is represented in an organized way.
And they are good for managers or non-technical people to interpret.
So here is an example of I extend reports.
And so what I'm going to do now is pause this video and show you an actual copy of a report generated
previously.
So this is an example of a report generated from a framework.
This first one is displaying the or the complete test.
And here we have a number of logs which have been generated and outputs within the reports.
So we have an information status log and we have pass locks.
If we click on the second test, he shows the add remove item test.
And again, it has an information log.
It has pass logs and it also has a failure log.
And that's because the total amount is different to what was expected.
If we click on the screenshots, you'll see that the screenshot is also attached to the report for which
we can view.
On the left hand side, we have some additional tabs.
The second one is an exception tab of showing where it failed.
And his third one provides some key data, such as the start and end time, how many tests passed and
failed.
And this again shows in a pie chart format, including the amount of events that have occurred.
And also the amount of time each test has taken.
So that's his extent report in a nutshell.
So now that we've seen an example of an extent, reports ESCO, over some of the key classes that we
need to use in order to use extent reports.
So first is the extent reports class.
So extending the pause is a longer stall reporting library for automated tests.
A logger is simply an object to log messages or vents for a specific system or application.
Extend the pause using uses to log in style to add information about test sessions such as the creation
of tests.
Add in screenshots, a sign in tanks or added events, or a series of steps to sequentially indicate
the flow of test steps.
Next, we have reporters.
So the information you create during your runs can be forwarded to variety destinations, including
files, databases, or stored in memory to be used at a later point in time.
Extent reports uses the observer pattern make it all reporter observers that are known by extent reports.
So below we show an instance of extent Spark Reporter, which is The Observer.
And it's to be attached to the extent reports object, which is the subject.
And it notifies extent spark reporter of any changes in state such as the creation of tests, added
blogs, etc..
So he can see on nine one.
I'm defined in the extent reports object and the object is called extent.
Annoying too.
I'm defining the reporter and I'm using the extent sparc reporter class.
But the reporter called spark.
Online free.
I'm then attaching a reporter to the extent report object.
Then we have the extent test class.
So tests are created using a method within the extent reports class.
As we have previously created an extent.
Reports object as shown below.
We can now use the method create test to create a test object.
So I'm using the extend test class and I'm calling the object test.
And it equals extent.
Don't create test and create test is a method that belongs to extent reports class.
On doing so the create test method returns an extent test object which can be used to publish logs,
create nodes, assign attributes or attach screenshots.
So think of it this way will be crazy in a single extent.
Report object.
We would add a reporter to it.
It would increase tests by using the extent test, extend test class and call in a method from the extent
reporter object who create test.
Once a test extent test object is created.
We can then use it to log a message of information.
Log a message when a step has passed or failed.
Or log a screenshot and attach it to the test on a failure.
Will be used in Fred local when we come to use extend test and this is so our test do not become confused
when running in parallel execution.
The next method I want to share with you is the flush command.
So the flush method instructs extent reports to write the test information to a destination.
This method is called when all our tests have completed.
It would then generates a report, which is usually a simple file, and it will combine all the tests
into a single report for us to review.
So last off is Maven and some closing notes.
So as we're using MAVEN in our framework, we would need to add extent reports to our POM XML file.
I will walk you through this when we set up extent reports and will be using MBM repository to find
the right dependency.
In the next lecture, I'll walk you through the architecture for how I'm going to be setting up extent
reports and I'll demonstrate some good design practices.
I will also explain how we're going to create and use a new extent manager class which will be responsible
for storing all our code we need to set up and use extent reports.
I hope this lecture has been useful to you.
And don't worry if it seems confusing at first, as I'll break this down in the following lectures.